---
layout: post
title: "Kotlin / Everywhere"
date:   2019-08-22
location: cgi
speaker: "Diverse" 
categories: event
organizer: gdg
author: jens
---
Have you heard about Kotlin? Kotlin is designed to interoperate fully with Java, and the JVM. It mainly targets the JVM, but also compiles to JavaScript or native code. It has official support from Google for Android app development, but it can also be used for web applications and even backends.

We will share some insights at our upcoming Kotlin Everywhere event. We will start with a short introduction talk about Kotlin.

Kotlin Google Developer Expert Danny Preussler will compare Kotlin language features with Java side by side in his talk.

After that we will have a hands-on-lab where we will build an Android app frontend and Spring Boot powered backend in Google App Engine with our learned Kotlin skills.

If you want to participate in the hands-on-lab, see the mandatory requirements below. If you don’t want to do the lab on your own, you can also team up with some other participants, or we will guide you through the lab together on the beamer.

Happy to see you at the Kotlin Everywhere Event.

Requirements for the Lab:
- Laptop with Android Studio installed
- Android smartphone + USB cable for deploying on your phone
- Google Cloud Platform Account with credit card.
You need to enable billing to get 300$ free credits for Google Cloud
- Internet Access (you can receive a free WiFi Guest Access on CGI Network, we will inform you later for that)
Link to the Lab: https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kotlin-emojify/index.html

Agenda:
18:30 Start of Event
18:40 Welcome to GDG Braunschweig
18:45 Intro to Kotlin
19:00 talk by Danny Preussler (Android/Kotlin Google Developer Expert) about the differences between Java and Kotlin
20:00 Codelab together on beamer and/or in small teams
21:15 Get together and networking

[**Die Anmeldung erfolgt über Meetup**](https://www.meetup.com/de-DE/GDG-Braunschweig/events/263675986/)